






Research on precision irrigation system of blueberry orchard based on LoRa and SVM-Markov
          - CNKI
        








CNKI
            Knowledge Network Node
          












Contents
 0 引言 1 蓝莓园精准灌溉系统框架设计 2 灌溉预测模型建立     2.1 预测模型选择     2.2 支持向量机模型     2.3 马尔科夫模型     2.4 SVM-Markov组合模型         1) 自变量、因变量的选择。         2) 数据预处理。         3) 最佳核参数和正则化参数的确定。         4) SVM数据预测。         5) Markov状态划分。         6) 构造一步转移概率矩阵。         7) 结果与误差分析。 3 系统设计与实现     3.1 硬件设计     3.2 灌溉工作过程设计     3.3 监控系统设计 4 测试结果与分析 5 结论












Journal of Chinese Agricultural Mechanization.
                2022,
              
                (11)
              Core





export references

share
print






Research on precision irrigation system of blueberry orchard based on LoRa and SVM-MarkovChinese Full TextEnglish Full Text (MT)
Wu Dan;Liu Yonghua;Wu Yujuan;Jiangsu Vocational College of Agriculture and Forestry;

Abstract: Aiming at the current problems of low irrigation efficiency, high labor intensity, and extensive management in blueberry orchards, a blueberry orchard precision irrigation system based on LoRa wireless long-distance communication and SVM-Markov combination model is designed. The system collects environmental parameters such as air temperature and humidity, soil humidity, illuminance, and wind speed in the blueberry garden through the LoRa wireless data acquisition system, and uploads the data packets to the cloud server through the LoRa gateway and the Internet of Things gateway, to realize irrigation volume prediction and irrigation decision-making, and feed back the decision-making results to the irrigation execution module. In order to improve the prediction accuracy, SVM-Markov algorithm was introduced. Taking blueberry Garden in Tianwang Town of Jurong City as the experimental object, the prediction results showed that the mean absolute error of SVM-Markov model was 0.188 7 mm/d, and the root mean square error was 0.239 4 mm/d. Compared with SVM model, the prediction accuracy of SVM-Markov model was higher and the data fitting effect was better. The system can realize real-time monitoring and precise irrigation of blueberry orchard environment, which provides a certain reference for the realization of precise irrigation in other orchards.MoreResetKeywords：precision irrigation;
                          LoRa;
                          SVM;
                          Markov;
                          



DOI：10.13733/j.jcam.issn.2095-5553.2022.11.028

Series：(D) Agriculture

Subject：Agricultural Engineering; Horticulture

Classification Code：S274.2;S663.9







Mobile Reading

Read on your phone instantly
Step 1Scan QR Codes
"Mobile CNKI-CNKI Express" App

Step 2Open“CNKI Express”
and click the scan icon in the upper left corner of the homepage.

Step 3Scan QR Codes
Read this article on your phone.




HTML
                          
BETABETAEnglish HTML (MT)
                            
CAJ Download
                    
PDF Download
                    


Download the mobile appuse the app to scan this coderead the article. 


Tips: Please download  CAJViewer to view CAJ format full text.
		

          Download: 270
          Page: 203-208+215
          Pagecount: 7
          Size: 1267K






Citation Network



Node Literature
Co-citing Literature(0)
Co-cited Literature(0)
Sub-reference(0)
Reference(0)
Cited Literature(0)
Sub-cited Literature(0)





Reference
Sub-reference




Cited Literature
Sub-cited Literature




Reference
Sub-reference
Cited Literature
Sub-cited Literature






Related Literature

Similar Article
Reader Recommendation
Associated Author













HTML Read
                  
BETABETAEnglish HTML (MT)
                      
CAJ Download
                
PDF Download
                




