




















































Plant Disease Prediction Using Deep Learning in Smart Greenhouse | SpringerLink

































Skip to main content



Advertisement











Log in







Menu




                            Find a journal
                        

                            Publish with us
                        

                            Track your research
                        






Search






Cart












Download book PDF







Download book EPUB








ICT Systems and Sustainability pp 695–707Cite as




Home





ICT Systems and Sustainability





Conference paper







                                    Plant Disease Prediction Using Deep Learning in Smart Greenhouse
                                



Download book PDF







Download book EPUB











Plant Disease Prediction Using Deep Learning in Smart Greenhouse
V. N. Jatinjayasimha12, Kanak Jyoti12, Jasnavi12, Divya Hegde12 & …D. M. Sunil12 Show authors

Conference paper
First Online: 01 November 2022






462 Accesses












Part of the book series:
Lecture Notes in Networks and Systems ((LNNS,volume 516))
                    






 AbstractThe greenhouse is a structural system used to cultivate a variety of fruits, vegetables, flowers, and other plants that requires special temperature and humidity conditions to flourish. There are numerous issues, ranging from plant growth to maintenance, that requires greenhouse control and monitoring. In addition, various bacterial, viral, or fungal diseases affect the plant leaf, reducing crop productivity drastically. Plant leaf diseases must be identified and treated soon in order to cater to the requirements of a huge population around the world. We offer a systematic model based on CNN for identifying diseases in rice leaves in this research. With the use of a unique dataset containing 2693 images of rice leaf diseases, we developed the system to spot the three most common rice leaf diseases: Brown Spot, hispa, Leaf Blast, and healthy leaves. Our paper’s main goal is to use an effective deep learning framework for disease prediction by making use of leaf images and to create a solution for greenhouse based on IoT to detect problems without the need for human involvement and regulating environmental parameters like humidity, temperature, and soil moisture, as well as perform automatic irrigation of the greenhouse.KeywordsGreenhouseCNN-based modelLeaf diseasesDeep learning






Access provided by University of Nebraska-Lincoln.
                    
                            
Download conference paper PDF









1 IntroductionTechnological innovations in the sectors of information science and communication have marked their potential for certain applications. In particular, the use of IoT in agriculture is rapidly growing because it provides farmers with a well-controlled and automated farm, improved climatic and crop production forecasts for agriculturists, and a better understanding of the dominating products of the market. In addition, it is a significant achievement in the field of agriculture to automate the prediction of diseases in plants based on their leaf images. Furthermore, crop output and quality are clearly influenced by the early and timely detection of plant diseases. Given the widespread farming of a vast variety of agricultural products, perhaps an agronomist and pathologist may fail to spot illnesses in vegetation by glancing at diseased leaves. Farmers in rural locations may have to commute significant distances to obtain advice from professionals, and this is both cumbersome and overpriced. For the treatment and classification of plant diseases, farmers and agriculturalists get benefited from the excellent precision and efficiency of automated computing systems. Several types of feature sets can be used to classify plant ailments using machine learning. The most typical model parameters among them are traditional handcrafted and deep learning-oriented abilities. Before efficiently and successfully extracting features, pre-processing is required, which includes picture enhancement, shade alteration, and segmentation. Different classifiers might be employed after feature extraction. Deep learning-based algorithms are by far the most potent approach for dynamically obtaining decisive and discriminative features, especially CNNs. Deep learning is made up of several convolution layers that reflect learning characteristics from records and data. Plant disease detection can be achieved by the usage of a deep learning model.By providing adequate temperature and aeration, greenhouse provides regulated safe housing and a controlled environment for crop production. Plants in open-air culture have slowed growth, which extends the time it takes for them to produce. This can be greatly reduced by adopting a greenhouse system, as it allows the plant life to retain moisture in its environment as well as within the soil. Farmers used to have to visit their entire field on a regular or irregular basis to ensure the well-being of their farm, which often included turning on/off motors to ensure that their plants were watered. Due to the effort required to turn off the engine, the motor pumps are sometimes left running for longer than necessary, resulting in water blockage, root decay, and oxygen deprivation in the soil. As a result, through the collection and interpretation of observed statistics and decision-making, the Internet of things elevates agriculture beyond traditional agricultural approaches. This procedure may also control a variety of activities in an automated greenhouse system, assisting farmers in a number of ways and saving both time and energy while enhancing productivity. The contemporary smart greenhouse system research and development are centered on the innovative integration of greenhouse tracking, notifications, automation, and analytical techniques. The proposed system framework is divided into two components, i.e.; firstly, the system uses deep learning algorithms to analyze plant disease detection. Various varieties of rice diseases have been found in rice fields, which include rice Leaf Blast, hispa, and Brown Spot. Secondly, an autonomous tracking system that regulates humidity, temperature, and moisture content of soil and data is recorded and stored in the cloud, as well as providing smart irrigation control based on the sensor input.2 Literature SurveyWe have discussed the various studies in the existing research field in this section. In paper [1], the researchers utilized tomato leaf images to diagnose diseases, segmented diseased portions, and used geometric and histogram-based features of the leaf and also classified by using a support vector machine classifier with polynomial kernels. Kaur et al. [2] have used various color and texture features to identify three different soybean diseases. In [3], the authors have identified plant leaves and their diseases by using a feed-forward network and backpropagation method.In a tomato greenhouse in Russia, the author [4] employed the idea of IoT deployment. The major plan is to determine the greenhouse monitoring component as well as the tomato growth rate; however, they also obtain other statistics such as sensory data, data analytics, monitoring systems, graphics, and insights.In [5], the author has experimented with the detection of plant disease at an early stage by implementing the case of IoT infrastructure. It consists of a Raspberry Pi processor with a Web camera interface for image processing and recognition. Image recognition techniques, such as OpenCV, are used for disease detection classification.In the paper [6], to retrieve the color-texture properties of apple patches, the author used the K-means clustering approach to separate the diseased sections and integrate the global color histogram, color coherence vector, and local binary pattern. There were three different forms of apple illnesses discovered using the combined local binary pattern and improved support vector machine (SVM).In [7], early blight, late blight, leaf mildew, and leaf spot are the four tomato leaf diseases addressed by the author and used a Bayesian discriminant and step-wise discriminant principal component analysis technique for extracting 18 attributes from tomato leaf spot images, including color, texture, and shape information.Even after this research, there are still deficiencies and limitations with traditional image processing technology. They are time and labor-intensive, and they rely significantly on artificial feature extraction. As a result, achieving intuitive, efficient, and precise plant leaf disease identification is critical. Deep learning has made more progress in recent years. The convolutional neural networks are becoming the preferred method [8]. CNN has risen to prominence as the most popular image identification classifier, demonstrating excellent abilities in image recognition and analysis [9]. Based on the leaf vein patterns, the deep learning approach was first introduced in plant recognition [10]. Leguminous plant species are classified as white beans, red beans, or soybean by CNN using three to six layers.Our project also emphasizes the monitoring, reporting, automating, and data processing elements of the greenhouse. So further discussion includes existing technology based on this. There has been researched cited [11, 12] in order to appreciate the importance and urgent necessity for greenhouses in agriculture. It justifies the distant future advantages of the greenhouse, significantly when it comes to global warming. Because there is a restricted amount of land available, it leads to economical solutions that result in better production, fewer pests, and reduced weather variability. For illustration [13], a comprehensive study was published to represent different humidity and temperature ranges for a variety of agricultural crops in a greenhouse.Likewise, the method has been assessed and proved a way to improve agricultural productivity [14]. Reference [15] focuses primarily on the greenhouse’s automation aspect, providing an automatic irrigation structure for the greenhouse which reduces human interaction in its functioning. Similarly, [16] uses Raspberry Pi and Arduino to analyze, manage, and coordinate various factors that control crop productivity, including humidity, CO2 concentration, illumination, moisture content, and temperature.3 MethodologyThis research presents a comprehensive approach to build a smart greenhouse that includes features such as plant disease prediction using deep learning, monitoring, alerting, memory optimization, and irrigation automation. The disease prediction deep learning models were trained and evaluated using Internet picture data gathering. Humidity, temperature, and soil moisture level data are gathered using a combination of sensor data. When the surrounding parameters differ from the norm, the microcontroller notifies the farmer. The data from continuous factor monitoring are saved to a cloud server, which saves memory. The irrigation motor is controlled by the microcontroller depending on the inputs from the sensors. The proposed methodology’s workflow is depicted in Fig. 1.Fig. 1Overview of the systemFull size imageFigure 2 depicts a block diagram of the proposed system that describes the elements and their relationships. The proposed framework is split into two subsystems, each with its own set of capabilities:Fig. 2Block illustrationFull size image

Disease prediction system.


Ambient condition monitoring and automated irrigation system.


3.1 Disease Prediction SystemThis section outlines how we plan to identify diseases in rice leaves. The entire process is divided into several parts, beginning with the formation of a new trained set of data, followed by the creation of a new CNN framework, deep features are extracted for classifier training, and ultimately the identification of diseases of rice leaf.Dataset: We have collected 2693 original RGB-colored images from the Internet [17]. It contains healthy leaves, disease-affected leaves—Brown Spot, hispa, and Leaf Blast images. Figure 3 depicts an example of each kind of rice leaf disease. Different sizes of images were utilized in all of the trials in this research to examine the performance of recognizing rice leaf diseases. For example, Brown Spot healthy, hispa, and Leaf Blast samples are shown in Fig. 3a, b, c, and d, respectively.Fig. 3Rice leaf diseases: a Brown Spot; b healthy leaf; c hispa; d Leaf BlastFull size imageRice Leaf Disease Recognition Model Based on CNN: For identifying rice leaf diseases, we present a customized CNN-based model. We aimed to design a ten-layer model. As illustrated in Fig. 4, it consists of an input layer, three convolution layers (Conv1, Conv2, Conv3), three pooling layers (Pooling1, Pooling2, Pooling3), two dense layers (Dense1, Dense2), and an output layer.Fig. 4Our rice leaf disease detection model based on CNNFull size imageInput Layer: The input layer of our model is given an RGB image with dimensions of w0 × h0 where w0 and h0 are the image’s width and height, respectively.Convolution Layer. A convolution layer’s main purpose is to transfer local conjunctions of features from the previous layers to a feature map. Three convolution layers and various filters are used in our model to create the output feature maps. Consequently, these map record in which part of the image the characteristics occurs and also how it meets the requirements of filtration system. As an outcome, every filter is adequately trained for the number of data it receives, and then, specific properties in the image are being identified by each filter. The following equation is used to compute the output feature maps in this layer:$$ Z_{i}^{l} = b_{i}^{l } + \mathop \sum \limits_{j = 1}^{{n^{l - 1} }} K_{i,j}^{l} * Z_{j}^{l - 1} $$where \(Z_{i}^{l}\) and \( Z_{j}^{l - 1}\) depict the features map of input and output, l depicts the layer \( b_{i}^{l }\) is a bias, \(K_{i,j}^{l}\)  signifies the filter, nl−1 signifies the quantity of filters. To easily grasp complex data relationships, we use the ReLU nonlinear activation function. We employ three convolution layers in our model: Conv1, Conv2, and Conv3. For each convolution layer, we used certain filters, i.e., we have used 64, 32, and 16 as filters for Conv1, Conv2, and Conv3, respectively. The parameters of the model of these layers are displayed in Fig. 5 obtained as an output of code.Fig. 5Relevant parameters of leaf disease detection modelFull size imagePooling Layer: Pooling is important in our model since it reduces variance and computation complexity, which means there are fewer parameters to learn. By downsampling, the spatial information, and the feature map’s parameters are reduced. As a result, the remaining procedures are carried out on summarized characteristics, which increases the model’s resistance to alterations at positions where image attributes have been found in the image. The three pooling layers we employ in our model are Pooling1, Pooling2, and Pooling3.Dense Layer: The result of the last pooling layer is compressed into a 1D vector. Then, it is passed into a dense layer that is fully connected. This layer generates a 512-dimensional vector V, then it is transmitted into a second connected dense layer which produces a 4-dimensional vector V′.Output Layer: Using the softmax activation function, this layer gradually normalizes the dense layer output V′ and provides a probability distribution for each of the rice leaf disease categories.Rice Leaf Diseases Model Training and Classification: In our plant leaf disease prediction algorithm based on CNN, deeper aspects of disorders of rice leaf are recovered using our customized CNN-based framework. Every layer’s activation transforms the detailed characteristics of the original leaf disease image into a much more conceptual representation and synthesizes the key aspects as the image advances through the deeper levels of the system. Our model’s softmax layer is then used to classify more and more reliable data as an attribute. In the convolutional, pooling, and dense layers, we transfer pictures in groups to train and improve the system configuration, culminating in a 1 × 512 vector that perfectly describes the properties. Following that, these features are transmitted to a second dense layer, which generates a 1 × 4 vector. This vector is then used by the softmax layer to categorize a plant leaf disease image into the appropriate category. Before validating the system and its relevant attributes with a collection of evaluation images, we transfer the images for training across a number of epochs.3.2 Ambient Condition Monitoring and Automated Irrigation System


1.
As an input, data from sensors like DHT11 and temperature sensor is used.


2.
DHT11 is easy to use and it is a low-cost, digital humidity, and temperature sensor. It is simple to use; however, gathering information takes a few seconds.


3.
The atmospheric moisture content of the soil was recorded using a soil moisture sensor. The moisture content of the soil uses capacitance to compute the dielectric permittivity of the extracellular environment.


4.
It calculates the amount of moisture lost in the soil over time owing to evaporation and plant uptake.


5.
The LCD display will also show the current temperature, humidity, and soil moisture level.


6.
The Arduino UNO receives the sensor inputs. It works through a program done in Arduino IDE.


7.
The sensed data is saved in the ThingSpeak cloud using the ThingSpeak write API, which saves memory. We utilized an ESP8266 WIFI module to link Arduino to ThingSpeak.


8.
On the basis of moisture level followed by motor working status, the status of the motor on/off is displayed on the LCD in this system. And on the basis of the moisture content, whether it is above or below the threshold value set by us, the water pump activates and switches on or off.


9.
This relay board unit is in charge of controlling the microcontroller development board’s increased current demands. The bc547 transistor can switch approximately 7 A and shields the input unit from a relay module and is safely operated by it. A freewheeling diode is being used to safeguard the microcontroller against relay kickback.


4 Results and Analysis4.1 Model Training ResultsEnvironment: The described model has been deployed using the Keras and TensorFlow packages in a Jupyter notebook.Datasets for Training and Testing: We examined 2693 RGB-colored photos of healthy rice leaves as well as three typical rice leaf diseases: Leaf Blast, Brown Spot, and hispa. We utilize 70% of the data for training the system and 30% of the data for testing the model (Table 1).Table 1 Datasets for training and testingFull size tableImpact of Epochs. Under default parameters, a customizable amount of epochs have been used to train the proposed model. Here, we have applied epochs up to 12, and hence, the accuracy went up to 91.94% while validation accuracy is 48%.4.2 Disease Prediction ResultsIn the complete dataset of 2693 photos, 70% of the photos are being used to train the classifier, with the remaining 30% being used for testing. Because a bigger database was used, a lesser percentage of data was needed for testing datasets, and a significant amount of data could be used for training with this method. The suggested system’s effectiveness is evaluated using four types of rice leaf disease pictures in terms of disease prediction, viz. healthy, Brown Spot, hispa, and Leaf Blast. Figures 6 and 7 show the detected output.Fig. 6Healthy leaf detectedFull size imageFig. 7Hispa (leaf disease) detectedFull size image4.3 Results of Environmental Condition Monitoring


1.
The tracked and recorded values of temperature (T) and humidity (H) are collected on a cloud server of ThingSpeak, as depicted in Figs. 11 and 12. These variables can be constantly monitored even from a remote location.


2.
Temperature, humidity, and soil moisture level output are also shown in LCD and keep updating in every 2 s as shown in Figs. 8 and 9.Fig. 8Temperature monitoring resultsFull size imageFig. 9Humidity monitoring resultsFull size image


3.
The threshold value of moisture content has been preset at 200, and if the dryness reaches 200 or above, the irrigation motor is activated; however, if the dryness falls below 200, the irrigation motor is switched off as shown in Figs. 10 and 11.Fig. 10Display shows the temperature T, humidity H, and soil moisture M, when M < 200 pump offFull size imageFig. 11Display shows the temperature T, humidity H, and soil moisture M, when M > 200 pump onFull size image


5 Conclusion and Future ScopeThe idea of this research study is effectively implemented as leaf disease detection using deep learning and tracking of environmental parameters and irrigation systems within the greenhouse environment using IoT. We designed a CNN-based framework that was customized to our needs which can identify healthy leaves and three common rice leaf diseases. The developed findings are highly accurate and utilize memory efficiency.Despite its increased accuracy, by testing the model on a variety of datasets from different regions, we hope to increase its dependability and adaptability. When there are images of rice leaf disease with complex backdrops, we will work on classifying them. In future, we may be able to place many cameras at different locations, resulting in a considerably larger database and aiding in the refinement of the results. We can also provide the name of the pesticide that is required for the disease that has been discovered. Regarding the future implementation of the monitoring greenhouse system, more sensors might be added in order to improve management. As an example, to detect smoke and gases, we may install an MQ2 smoke sensor, an LDR, and inlet and exhaust fans to monitor light intensity and aeration, respectively.

 ReferencesMokhtar U, Ali MAS, Hassanien AE, Hefny H (2015) Identifying two of tomatoes leaf viruses using support vector machine. In: Second international conference, India, vol 339, pp 771–782
                        Google Scholar 
                Kaur S, Pandey S, Goel S (2018) Semi-automatic leaf disease detection and classification system for soybean culture. IET Image Proc 12:1038–1048. https://doi.org/10.1049/iet-ipr.2017.0822Article 
    
                    Google Scholar 
                Hassan SM, Maji AK, Jasiński M, Leonowicz Z, Jasińska E (2021) Identification of plant-leaf diseases using CNN and transfer-learning approach. Electronics 10:1388. https://doi.org/10.3390/electronics10121388Article 
    
                    Google Scholar 
                Tripicchio P et al (2015) Towards smart farming and sustainable agriculture with drones. In: 2015 international conference on intelligent environments, pp 140–143
                        Google Scholar 
                Ferentinos KP (2018) Deep learning models for plant disease detection and diagnosis. Comput Electron Agric 145:311–318Article 
    
                    Google Scholar 
                Dubey SR, Jalal AS (2012) Adapted approach for fruit disease identification using images. arXiv abs/1405.4930
                        Google Scholar 
                Shi Y, Wang XF, Zhang SW, Zhang CL (2015) PNN based crop disease recognition with leaf image features and meteorological data. Int J Agric and Biol Eng 8(4):60–68
                    Google Scholar 
                Barbedo JGA (2018) Factors influencing the use of deep learning for plant disease recognition. Biosys Eng 172:84–91Article 
    
                    Google Scholar 
                Kamilaris A, Prenafeta-Boldú FX (2018) Deep learning in agriculture: a survey. Comput Electron Agric 147:70–90Article 
    
                    Google Scholar 
                Grinblat GL et al (2016) Deep learning for plant identification using vein morphological patterns. Comput Electron Agric 127:418–424Article 
    
                    Google Scholar 
                Nambuthiri S, Fulcher A, Koeser A, Geneve R, Niu G (2015) Moving toward sustainability with alternative containers for greenhouse and nursery crop production: a review and research update. HortTechnology 25:8–16. https://doi.org/10.21273/HORTTECH.25.1.8Aznar-Sánchez JA, Velasco-Muñoz JF, López Felices B, Román-Sánchez I (2020) An analysis of global research trends on greenhouse technology: towards a sustainable agriculture. Int J Environ Res Public Health 17:664. https://doi.org/10.3390/ijerph17020664Article 
    
                    Google Scholar 
                Zabeltitz CV (2011) Integrated greenhouse systems for mild climates: climate conditions, design, construction, maintenance, climate control. Springer, BerlinBook 
    
                    Google Scholar 
                Dedeepya P, Srinija USA, Gowtham Krishna M, Sindhusha G, Gnanesh T (2018) Smart greenhouse farming based on IoT. In: Proceedings of the 2nd international conference on electronics, communication and aerospace technology, ICECA 2018, pp 1890–1893. https://doi.org/10.1109/ICECA.2018.8474713Bhuvaneswari T, Yao JTH (2015) Automated greenhouse. In: 2014 IEEE international symposium on robotics and manufacturing automation, IEEE-ROMA2014, pp 194–199. https://doi.org/10.1109/ROMA.2014.7295887Jaiswal H, Karmali Radha P, Singuluri R, Sampson SA (2019) IoT and machine learning based approach for fully automated greenhouse. In: 2019 IEEE Bombay section signature conference, IBSSC 2019, Jan 2019. https://doi.org/10.1109/IBSSC47189.2019.8973086
https://www.kaggle.com/minhhuy2810/rice-diseases-image-dataset
Download references Author informationAuthors and AffiliationsREVA University, Bangalore, IndiaV. N. Jatinjayasimha, Kanak Jyoti,  Jasnavi, Divya Hegde & D. M. SunilAuthorsV. N. JatinjayasimhaView author publicationsYou can also search for this author in
                        PubMed Google ScholarKanak JyotiView author publicationsYou can also search for this author in
                        PubMed Google Scholar JasnaviView author publicationsYou can also search for this author in
                        PubMed Google ScholarDivya HegdeView author publicationsYou can also search for this author in
                        PubMed Google ScholarD. M. SunilView author publicationsYou can also search for this author in
                        PubMed Google ScholarCorresponding authorCorrespondence to
                V. N. Jatinjayasimha . Editor informationEditors and AffiliationsSingidunum University, Belgrade, SerbiaMilan Tuba ITM University, Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh, IndiaShyam Akashe Global Knowledge Research Foundation, Ahmedabad, IndiaAmit Joshi  Rights and permissionsReprints and permissions Copyright information© 2023 The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. About this paperCite this paperJatinjayasimha, V.N., Jyoti, K., Jasnavi, Hegde, D., Sunil, D.M. (2023).  Plant Disease Prediction Using Deep Learning in Smart Greenhouse.

                     In: Tuba, M., Akashe, S., Joshi, A. (eds) ICT Systems and Sustainability. Lecture Notes in Networks and Systems, vol 516. Springer, Singapore. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-5221-0_66Download citation.RIS.ENW.BIBDOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-5221-0_66Published: 01 November 2022
                            Publisher Name: Springer, Singapore
                                Print ISBN: 978-981-19-5220-3
                                Online ISBN: 978-981-19-5221-0eBook Packages: Intelligent Technologies and RoboticsIntelligent Technologies and Robotics (R0)Share this paperAnyone you share the following link with will be able to read this content:Get shareable linkSorry, a shareable link is not currently available for this article.Copy to clipboard
                                Provided by the Springer Nature SharedIt content-sharing initiative
                             Publish with usPolicies and ethics









Download book PDF







Download book EPUB





















Search



Search by keyword or author






Search







Navigation



                        Find a journal
                    



                        Publish with us
                    



                        Track your research
                    








Discover content

Journals A-Z
Books A-Z



Publish with us

Publish your research
Open access publishing



Products and services

Our products
Librarians
Societies
Partners and advertisers



Our imprints

Springer
Nature Portfolio
BMC
Palgrave Macmillan
Apress








Your privacy choices/Manage cookies


Your US state privacy rights


Accessibility statement


Terms and conditions


Privacy policy


Help and support





129.93.161.219

Big Ten Academic Alliance (BTAA) (3000133814)  - University of Nebraska-Lincoln (3000134173) 




© 2024 Springer Nature










